---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "upcloud_managed_database_redis_sessions Data Source - terraform-provider-upcloud"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Current sessions of a Redis managed database
---

# upcloud_managed_database_redis_sessions (Data Source)

Current sessions of a Redis managed database

## Example Usage

```terraform
# Use data source to gather a list of the active sessions for a Managed Redis Database

# Create a Managed Redis resource
resource "upcloud_managed_database_redis" "example" {
  name = "example"
  plan = "1x1xCPU-2GB"
  zone = "fi-hel2"
}

# Read the active sessions of the newly created service
data "upcloud_managed_database_redis_sessions" "example" {
  service = upcloud_managed_database_redis.example.id
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `service` (String) Service's UUID for which these sessions belongs to

### Optional

- `limit` (Number) Number of entries to receive at most.
- `offset` (Number) Offset for retrieved results based on sort order.
- `order` (String) Order by session field and sort retrieved results. Limited variables can be used for ordering.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `sessions` (Block Set) Current sessions (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--sessions))

<a id="nestedblock--sessions"></a>
### Nested Schema for `sessions`

Read-Only:

- `active_channel_subscriptions` (Number) Number of active channel subscriptions
- `active_database` (String) Current database ID
- `active_pattern_matching_channel_subscriptions` (Number) Number of pattern matching subscriptions.
- `application_name` (String) Name of the application that is connected to this service.
- `client_addr` (String) Number of pattern matching subscriptions.
- `connection_age` (Number) Total duration of the connection in nanoseconds.
- `connection_idle` (Number) Idle time of the connection in nanoseconds.
- `flags` (Set of String) A set containing flags' descriptions.
- `flags_raw` (String) Client connection flags in raw string format.
- `id` (String) Process ID of this session.
- `multi_exec_commands` (Number) Number of commands in a MULTI/EXEC context.
- `output_buffer` (Number) Output buffer length.
- `output_buffer_memory` (Number) Output buffer memory usage.
- `output_list_length` (Number) Output list length (replies are queued in this list when the buffer is full).
- `query` (String) The last executed command.
- `query_buffer` (Number) Query buffer length (0 means no query pending).
- `query_buffer_free` (Number) Free space of the query buffer (0 means the buffer is full).


