---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "upcloud_loadbalancer Resource - terraform-provider-upcloud"
subcategory: Load Balancer
description: |-
  This resource represents Managed Load Balancer https://upcloud.com/products/managed-load-balancer service.
---

# upcloud_loadbalancer (Resource)

This resource represents [Managed Load Balancer](https://upcloud.com/products/managed-load-balancer) service.

## Example Usage

```terraform
variable "lb_zone" {
  type    = string
  default = "fi-hel2"
}

resource "upcloud_network" "lb_network" {
  name = "lb-test-net"
  zone = var.lb_zone
  ip_network {
    address = "10.0.0.0/24"
    dhcp    = true
    family  = "IPv4"
  }
}

resource "upcloud_loadbalancer" "lb" {
  configured_status = "started"
  name              = "lb-test"
  plan              = "development"
  zone              = var.lb_zone
  networks {
    name    = "Private-Net"
    type    = "private"
    family  = "IPv4"
    network = resource.upcloud_network.lb_network.id
  }
  networks {
    name   = "Public-Net"
    type   = "public"
    family = "IPv4"
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required Attributes

- `name` (String) The name of the service must be unique within customer account.
- `plan` (String) Plan which the service will have. You can list available load balancer plans with `upctl loadbalancer plans`
- `zone` (String) Zone in which the service will be hosted, e.g. `fi-hel1`. You can list available zones with `upctl zone list`.

### Optional Attributes

- `configured_status` (String) The service configured status indicates the service's current intended status. Managed by the customer.
- `labels` (Map of String) User defined key-value pairs to classify the load balancer.
- `maintenance_dow` (String) The day of the week on which maintenance will be performed. If not provided, we will randomly select a weekend day. Valid values `monday|tuesday|wednesday|thursday|friday|saturday|sunday`.
- `maintenance_time` (String) The time at which the maintenance will begin in UTC. A 2-hour timeframe has been allocated for maintenance. During this period, the multi-node production plans will not experience any downtime, while the one-node plans will have a downtime of 1-2 minutes. If not provided, we will randomly select an off-peak time. Needs to be a valid time format in UTC HH:MM:SSZ, for example `20:01:01Z`.
- `network` (String, Deprecated) Private network UUID where traffic will be routed. Must reside in load balancer zone.

### Blocks

- `networks` (Block List, Max: 8) Attached Networks from where traffic consumed and routed. Private networks must reside in loadbalancer zone. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--networks))

### Read-Only

- `backends` (List of String) Backends are groups of customer servers whose traffic should be balanced.
- `dns_name` (String, Deprecated) DNS name of the load balancer
- `frontends` (List of String) Frontends receive the traffic before dispatching it to the backends.
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `nodes` (List of Object) Nodes are instances running load balancer service (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--nodes))
- `operational_state` (String) The service operational state indicates the service's current operational, effective state. Managed by the system.
- `resolvers` (List of String) Domain Name Resolvers must be configured in case of customer uses dynamic type members

<a id="nestedblock--networks"></a>
### Nested Schema for `networks`

Required Attributes:

- `family` (String) Network family. Currently only `IPv4` is supported.
- `name` (String) The name of the network must be unique within the service.
- `type` (String) The type of the network. Only one public network can be attached and at least one private network must be attached.

Optional Attributes:

- `network` (String) Private network UUID. Required for private networks and must reside in loadbalancer zone. For public network the field should be omitted.

Read-Only:

- `dns_name` (String) DNS name of the load balancer network
- `id` (String) Network identifier.


<a id="nestedatt--nodes"></a>
### Nested Schema for `nodes`

Read-Only:

- `networks` (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--nodes--networks))
- `operational_state` (String)

<a id="nestedobjatt--nodes--networks"></a>
### Nested Schema for `nodes.networks`

Read-Only:

- `ip_addresses` (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--nodes--networks--ip_addresses))
- `name` (String)
- `type` (String)

<a id="nestedobjatt--nodes--networks--ip_addresses"></a>
### Nested Schema for `nodes.networks.ip_addresses`

Read-Only:

- `address` (String)
- `listen` (Boolean)
