---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "upcloud_managed_database_opensearch Resource - terraform-provider-upcloud"
subcategory: Databases
description: |-
  This resource represents OpenSearch managed database. See UpCloud Managed Databases https://upcloud.com/products/managed-databases product page for more details about the service.
---

# upcloud_managed_database_opensearch (Resource)

This resource represents OpenSearch managed database. See UpCloud [Managed Databases](https://upcloud.com/products/managed-databases) product page for more details about the service.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# Minimal config
resource "upcloud_managed_database_opensearch" "example_1" {
  name  = "opensearch-1"
  title = "opensearch-1-example-1"
  plan  = "1x2xCPU-4GB-80GB-1D"
  zone  = "fi-hel2"
}

# Service with custom properties and access control
resource "upcloud_managed_database_opensearch" "example_2" {
  name                    = "opensearch-2"
  title                   = "opensearch-2-example-2"
  plan                    = "1x2xCPU-4GB-80GB-1D"
  zone                    = "fi-hel1"
  access_control          = true
  extended_access_control = true
  properties {
    public_access = false
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required Attributes

- `name` (String) Name of the service. The name is used as a prefix for the logical hostname. Must be unique within an account
- `plan` (String) Service plan to use. This determines how much resources the instance will have. You can list available plans with `upctl database plans <type>`.
- `title` (String) Title of a managed database instance
- `zone` (String) Zone where the instance resides, e.g. `de-fra1`. You can list available zones with `upctl zone list`.

### Optional Attributes

- `access_control` (Boolean) Enables users access control for OpenSearch service. User access control rules will only be enforced if this attribute is enabled.
- `extended_access_control` (Boolean) Grant access to top-level `_mget`, `_msearch` and `_bulk` APIs. Users are limited to perform operations on indices based on the user-specific access control rules.
- `labels` (Map of String) User defined key-value pairs to classify the managed database.
- `maintenance_window_dow` (String) Maintenance window day of week. Lower case weekday name (monday, tuesday, ...)
- `maintenance_window_time` (String) Maintenance window UTC time in hh:mm:ss format
- `powered` (Boolean) The administrative power state of the service
- `termination_protection` (Boolean) If set to true, prevents the managed service from being powered off, or deleted.

### Blocks

- `network` (Block Set, Max: 8) Private networks attached to the managed database (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--network))
- `properties` (Block List, Max: 1) Database Engine properties for OpenSearch (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties))

### Read-Only

- `components` (List of Object) Service component information (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--components))
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `node_states` (List of Object) Information about nodes providing the managed service (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--node_states))
- `primary_database` (String) Primary database name
- `service_host` (String) Hostname to the service instance
- `service_password` (String, Sensitive) Primary username's password to the service instance
- `service_port` (String) Port to the service instance
- `service_uri` (String, Sensitive) URI to the service instance
- `service_username` (String) Primary username to the service instance
- `state` (String) State of the service
- `type` (String) Type of the service

<a id="nestedblock--network"></a>
### Nested Schema for `network`

Required Attributes:

- `family` (String) Network family. Currently only `IPv4` is supported.
- `name` (String) The name of the network. Must be unique within the service.
- `type` (String) The type of the network. Must be private.
- `uuid` (String) Private network UUID. Must reside in the same zone as the database.


<a id="nestedblock--properties"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties`

Optional Attributes:

- `action_auto_create_index_enabled` (Boolean) action.auto_create_index. Explicitly allow or block automatic creation of indices. Defaults to true.
- `action_destructive_requires_name` (Boolean) Require explicit index names when deleting.
- `automatic_utility_network_ip_filter` (Boolean) Automatic utility network IP Filter. Automatically allow connections from servers in the utility network within the same zone.
- `cluster_filecache_remote_data_ratio` (Number) The limit of how much total remote data can be referenced. Defines a limit of how much total remote data can be referenced as a ratio of the size of the disk reserved for the file cache. This is designed to be a safeguard to prevent oversubscribing a cluster. Defaults to 0.
- `cluster_max_shards_per_node` (Number) Controls the number of shards allowed in the cluster per data node.
- `cluster_routing_allocation_balance_prefer_primary` (Boolean) When set to true, OpenSearch attempts to evenly distribute the primary shards between the cluster nodes. Enabling this setting does not always guarantee an equal number of primary shards on each node, especially in the event of a failover. Changing this setting to false after it was set to true does not invoke redistribution of primary shards. Default is false.
- `cluster_routing_allocation_node_concurrent_recoveries` (Number) Concurrent incoming/outgoing shard recoveries per node. How many concurrent incoming/outgoing shard recoveries (normally replicas) are allowed to happen on a node. Defaults to node cpu count * 2.
- `custom_domain` (String) Custom domain. Serve the web frontend using a custom CNAME pointing to the Aiven DNS name.
- `elasticsearch_version` (String) Elasticsearch major version.
- `email_sender_name` (String) Sender name placeholder to be used in Opensearch Dashboards and Opensearch keystore. This should be identical to the Sender name defined in Opensearch dashboards.
- `email_sender_password` (String, Sensitive) Sender password for Opensearch alerts to authenticate with SMTP server. Sender password for Opensearch alerts to authenticate with SMTP server.
- `email_sender_username` (String) Sender username for Opensearch alerts.
- `enable_remote_backed_storage` (Boolean) Enable remote-backed storage.
- `enable_searchable_snapshots` (Boolean) Enable searchable snapshots.
- `enable_security_audit` (Boolean) Enable/Disable security audit.
- `enable_snapshot_api` (Boolean) Enable/Disable snapshot API. Enable/Disable snapshot API for custom repositories, this requires security management to be enabled.
- `http_max_content_length` (Number) Maximum content length for HTTP requests to the OpenSearch HTTP API, in bytes.
- `http_max_header_size` (Number) The max size of allowed headers, in bytes.
- `http_max_initial_line_length` (Number) The max length of an HTTP URL, in bytes.
- `index_patterns` (List of String) Index patterns.
- `indices_fielddata_cache_size` (Number) Relative amount. Maximum amount of heap memory used for field data cache. This is an expert setting; decreasing the value too much will increase overhead of loading field data; too much memory used for field data cache will decrease amount of heap available for other operations.
- `indices_memory_index_buffer_size` (Number) Percentage value. Default is 10%. Total amount of heap used for indexing buffer, before writing segments to disk. This is an expert setting. Too low value will slow down indexing; too high value will increase indexing performance but causes performance issues for query performance.
- `indices_memory_max_index_buffer_size` (Number) Absolute value. Default is unbound. Doesn't work without indices.memory.index_buffer_size. Maximum amount of heap used for query cache, an absolute indices.memory.index_buffer_size maximum hard limit.
- `indices_memory_min_index_buffer_size` (Number) Absolute value. Default is 48mb. Doesn't work without indices.memory.index_buffer_size. Minimum amount of heap used for query cache, an absolute indices.memory.index_buffer_size minimal hard limit.
- `indices_queries_cache_size` (Number) Percentage value. Default is 10%. Maximum amount of heap used for query cache. This is an expert setting. Too low value will decrease query performance and increase performance for other operations; too high value will cause issues with other OpenSearch functionality.
- `indices_query_bool_max_clause_count` (Number) Maximum number of clauses Lucene BooleanQuery can have. The default value (1024) is relatively high, and increasing it may cause performance issues. Investigate other approaches first before increasing this value.
- `indices_recovery_max_bytes_per_sec` (Number) Limits total inbound and outbound recovery traffic for each node. Applies to both peer recoveries as well as snapshot recoveries (i.e., restores from a snapshot). Defaults to 40mb.
- `indices_recovery_max_concurrent_file_chunks` (Number) Number of file chunks sent in parallel for each recovery. Defaults to 2.
- `ip_filter` (List of String) IP filter. Allow incoming connections from CIDR address block, e.g. '10.20.0.0/16'.
- `ism_enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether ISM is enabled or not.
- `ism_history_enabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether audit history is enabled or not. The logs from ISM are automatically indexed to a logs document.
- `ism_history_max_age` (Number) The maximum age before rolling over the audit history index in hours.
- `ism_history_max_docs` (Number) The maximum number of documents before rolling over the audit history index.
- `ism_history_rollover_check_period` (Number) The time between rollover checks for the audit history index in hours.
- `ism_history_rollover_retention_period` (Number) How long audit history indices are kept in days.
- `keep_index_refresh_interval` (Boolean) Don't reset index.refresh_interval to the default value. Aiven automation resets index.refresh_interval to default value for every index to be sure that indices are always visible to search. If it doesn't fit your case, you can disable this by setting up this flag to true.
- `knn_memory_circuit_breaker_enabled` (Boolean) Enable or disable KNN memory circuit breaker. Defaults to true.
- `knn_memory_circuit_breaker_limit` (Number) Maximum amount of memory that can be used for KNN index. Defaults to 50% of the JVM heap size.
- `node_search_cache_size` (String) The limit of how much total remote data can be referenced. Defines a limit of how much total remote data can be referenced as a ratio of the size of the disk reserved for the file cache. This is designed to be a safeguard to prevent oversubscribing a cluster. Defaults to 5gb. Requires restarting all OpenSearch nodes.
- `override_main_response_version` (Boolean) Compatibility mode sets OpenSearch to report its version as 7.10 so clients continue to work. Default is false.
- `plugins_alerting_filter_by_backend_roles` (Boolean) Enable or disable filtering of alerting by backend roles. Requires Security plugin. Defaults to false.
- `public_access` (Boolean) Public Access. Allow access to the service from the public Internet.
- `reindex_remote_whitelist` (List of String) Whitelisted addresses for reindexing. Changing this value will cause all OpenSearch instances to restart.
- `script_max_compilations_rate` (String) Script max compilation rate - circuit breaker to prevent/minimize OOMs. Script compilation circuit breaker limits the number of inline script compilations within a period of time. Default is use-context.
- `search_max_buckets` (Number) Maximum number of aggregation buckets allowed in a single response. OpenSearch default value is used when this is not defined.
- `service_log` (Boolean) Service logging. Store logs for the service so that they are available in the HTTP API and console.
- `thread_pool_analyze_queue_size` (Number) analyze thread pool queue size. Size for the thread pool queue. See documentation for exact details.
- `thread_pool_analyze_size` (Number) analyze thread pool size. Size for the thread pool. See documentation for exact details. Do note this may have maximum value depending on CPU count - value is automatically lowered if set to higher than maximum value.
- `thread_pool_force_merge_size` (Number) force_merge thread pool size. Size for the thread pool. See documentation for exact details. Do note this may have maximum value depending on CPU count - value is automatically lowered if set to higher than maximum value.
- `thread_pool_get_queue_size` (Number) get thread pool queue size. Size for the thread pool queue. See documentation for exact details.
- `thread_pool_get_size` (Number) get thread pool size. Size for the thread pool. See documentation for exact details. Do note this may have maximum value depending on CPU count - value is automatically lowered if set to higher than maximum value.
- `thread_pool_search_queue_size` (Number) search thread pool queue size. Size for the thread pool queue. See documentation for exact details.
- `thread_pool_search_size` (Number) search thread pool size. Size for the thread pool. See documentation for exact details. Do note this may have maximum value depending on CPU count - value is automatically lowered if set to higher than maximum value.
- `thread_pool_search_throttled_queue_size` (Number) search_throttled thread pool queue size. Size for the thread pool queue. See documentation for exact details.
- `thread_pool_search_throttled_size` (Number) search_throttled thread pool size. Size for the thread pool. See documentation for exact details. Do note this may have maximum value depending on CPU count - value is automatically lowered if set to higher than maximum value.
- `thread_pool_write_queue_size` (Number) write thread pool queue size. Size for the thread pool queue. See documentation for exact details.
- `thread_pool_write_size` (Number) write thread pool size. Size for the thread pool. See documentation for exact details. Do note this may have maximum value depending on CPU count - value is automatically lowered if set to higher than maximum value.
- `version` (String) OpenSearch major version.

Blocks:

- `auth_failure_listeners` (Block List, Max: 1) Opensearch Security Plugin Settings. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--auth_failure_listeners))
- `cluster_remote_store` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--cluster_remote_store))
- `cluster_search_request_slowlog` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--cluster_search_request_slowlog))
- `disk_watermarks` (Block List, Max: 1) Watermark settings. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--disk_watermarks))
- `index_rollup` (Block List, Max: 1) Index rollup settings. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--index_rollup))
- `index_template` (Block List, Max: 1) Template settings for all new indexes. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--index_template))
- `openid` (Block List, Max: 1) OpenSearch OpenID Connect Configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--openid))
- `opensearch_dashboards` (Block List, Max: 1) OpenSearch Dashboards settings. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--opensearch_dashboards))
- `remote_store` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--remote_store))
- `saml` (Block List, Max: 1) OpenSearch SAML configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--saml))
- `search_backpressure` (Block List, Max: 1) Search Backpressure Settings. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--search_backpressure))
- `search_insights_top_queries` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--search_insights_top_queries))
- `segrep` (Block List, Max: 1) Segment Replication Backpressure Settings. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--segrep))
- `shard_indexing_pressure` (Block List, Max: 1) Shard indexing back pressure settings. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--shard_indexing_pressure))

<a id="nestedblock--properties--auth_failure_listeners"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.auth_failure_listeners`

Blocks:

- `internal_authentication_backend_limiting` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--auth_failure_listeners--internal_authentication_backend_limiting))

<a id="nestedblock--properties--auth_failure_listeners--internal_authentication_backend_limiting"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.auth_failure_listeners.internal_authentication_backend_limiting`

Optional Attributes:

- `allowed_tries` (Number) The number of login attempts allowed before login is blocked.
- `authentication_backend` (String) The internal backend. Enter `internal`.
- `block_expiry_seconds` (Number) The duration of time that login remains blocked after a failed login.
- `max_blocked_clients` (Number) The maximum number of blocked IP addresses.
- `max_tracked_clients` (Number) The maximum number of tracked IP addresses that have failed login.
- `time_window_seconds` (Number) The window of time in which the value for `allowed_tries` is enforced.
- `type` (String) The type of rate limiting.



<a id="nestedblock--properties--cluster_remote_store"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.cluster_remote_store`

Optional Attributes:

- `state_global_metadata_upload_timeout` (String) The amount of time to wait for the cluster state upload to complete. The amount of time to wait for the cluster state upload to complete. Defaults to 20s.
- `state_metadata_manifest_upload_timeout` (String) The amount of time to wait for the manifest file upload to complete. The amount of time to wait for the manifest file upload to complete. The manifest file contains the details of each of the files uploaded for a single cluster state, both index metadata files and global metadata files. Defaults to 20s.
- `translog_buffer_interval` (String) The default value of the translog buffer interval. The default value of the translog buffer interval used when performing periodic translog updates. This setting is only effective when the index setting `index.remote_store.translog.buffer_interval` is not present. Defaults to 650ms.
- `translog_max_readers` (Number) The maximum number of open translog files for remote-backed indexes. Sets the maximum number of open translog files for remote-backed indexes. This limits the total number of translog files per shard. After reaching this limit, the remote store flushes the translog files. Default is 1000. The minimum required is 100.


<a id="nestedblock--properties--cluster_search_request_slowlog"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.cluster_search_request_slowlog`

Optional Attributes:

- `level` (String) Log level.

Blocks:

- `threshold` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--cluster_search_request_slowlog--threshold))

<a id="nestedblock--properties--cluster_search_request_slowlog--threshold"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.cluster_search_request_slowlog.threshold`

Optional Attributes:

- `debug` (String) Debug threshold for total request took time. The value should be in the form count and unit, where unit one of (s,m,h,d,nanos,ms,micros) or -1. Default is -1.
- `info` (String) Info threshold for total request took time. The value should be in the form count and unit, where unit one of (s,m,h,d,nanos,ms,micros) or -1. Default is -1.
- `trace` (String) Trace threshold for total request took time. The value should be in the form count and unit, where unit one of (s,m,h,d,nanos,ms,micros) or -1. Default is -1.
- `warn` (String) Warning threshold for total request took time. The value should be in the form count and unit, where unit one of (s,m,h,d,nanos,ms,micros) or -1. Default is -1.



<a id="nestedblock--properties--disk_watermarks"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.disk_watermarks`

Optional Attributes:

- `flood_stage` (Number) Flood stage watermark (percentage). The flood stage watermark for disk usage.
- `high` (Number) High watermark (percentage). The high watermark for disk usage.
- `low` (Number) Low watermark (percentage). The low watermark for disk usage.


<a id="nestedblock--properties--index_rollup"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.index_rollup`

Optional Attributes:

- `rollup_dashboards_enabled` (Boolean) plugins.rollup.dashboards.enabled. Whether rollups are enabled in OpenSearch Dashboards. Defaults to true.
- `rollup_enabled` (Boolean) plugins.rollup.enabled. Whether the rollup plugin is enabled. Defaults to true.
- `rollup_search_backoff_count` (Number) plugins.rollup.search.backoff_count. How many retries the plugin should attempt for failed rollup jobs. Defaults to 5.
- `rollup_search_backoff_millis` (Number) plugins.rollup.search.backoff_millis. The backoff time between retries for failed rollup jobs. Defaults to 1000ms.
- `rollup_search_search_all_jobs` (Boolean) plugins.rollup.search.all_jobs. Whether OpenSearch should return all jobs that match all specified search terms. If disabled, OpenSearch returns just one, as opposed to all, of the jobs that matches the search terms. Defaults to false.


<a id="nestedblock--properties--index_template"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.index_template`

Optional Attributes:

- `mapping_nested_objects_limit` (Number) index.mapping.nested_objects.limit. The maximum number of nested JSON objects that a single document can contain across all nested types. This limit helps to prevent out of memory errors when a document contains too many nested objects. Default is 10000.
- `number_of_replicas` (Number) The number of replicas each primary shard has.
- `number_of_shards` (Number) The number of primary shards that an index should have.


<a id="nestedblock--properties--openid"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.openid`

Optional Attributes:

- `client_id` (String) The ID of the OpenID Connect client. The ID of the OpenID Connect client configured in your IdP. Required.
- `client_secret` (String) The client secret of the OpenID Connect. The client secret of the OpenID Connect client configured in your IdP. Required.
- `connect_url` (String) OpenID Connect metadata/configuration URL. The URL of your IdP where the Security plugin can find the OpenID Connect metadata/configuration settings.
- `enabled` (Boolean) Enable or disable OpenSearch OpenID Connect authentication. Enables or disables OpenID Connect authentication for OpenSearch. When enabled, users can authenticate using OpenID Connect with an Identity Provider.
- `header` (String) HTTP header name of the JWT token. HTTP header name of the JWT token. Optional. Default is Authorization.
- `jwt_header` (String) The HTTP header that stores the token. The HTTP header that stores the token. Typically the Authorization header with the Bearer schema: Authorization: Bearer <token>. Optional. Default is Authorization.
- `jwt_url_parameter` (String) URL JWT token. If the token is not transmitted in the HTTP header, but as an URL parameter, define the name of the parameter here. Optional.
- `refresh_rate_limit_count` (Number) The maximum number of unknown key IDs in the time frame. The maximum number of unknown key IDs in the time frame. Default is 10. Optional.
- `refresh_rate_limit_time_window_ms` (Number) The time frame to use when checking the maximum number of unknown key IDs, in milliseconds. The time frame to use when checking the maximum number of unknown key IDs, in milliseconds. Optional.Default is 10000 (10 seconds).
- `roles_key` (String) The key in the JSON payload that stores the user’s roles. The key in the JSON payload that stores the user’s roles. The value of this key must be a comma-separated list of roles. Required only if you want to use roles in the JWT.
- `scope` (String) The scope of the identity token issued by the IdP. The scope of the identity token issued by the IdP. Optional. Default is openid profile email address phone.
- `subject_key` (String) The key in the JSON payload that stores the user’s name. The key in the JSON payload that stores the user’s name. If not defined, the subject registered claim is used. Most IdP providers use the preferred_username claim. Optional.


<a id="nestedblock--properties--opensearch_dashboards"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.opensearch_dashboards`

Optional Attributes:

- `enabled` (Boolean) Enable or disable OpenSearch Dashboards.
- `max_old_space_size` (Number) Limits the maximum amount of memory (in MiB) the OpenSearch Dashboards process can use. This sets the max_old_space_size option of the nodejs running the OpenSearch Dashboards. Note: the memory reserved by OpenSearch Dashboards is not available for OpenSearch.
- `multiple_data_source_enabled` (Boolean) Enable or disable multiple data sources in OpenSearch Dashboards.
- `opensearch_request_timeout` (Number) Timeout in milliseconds for requests made by OpenSearch Dashboards towards OpenSearch.


<a id="nestedblock--properties--remote_store"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.remote_store`

Optional Attributes:

- `segment_pressure_bytes_lag_variance_factor` (Number) The variance factor that is used to calculate the dynamic bytes lag threshold. The variance factor that is used together with the moving average to calculate the dynamic bytes lag threshold for activating remote segment backpressure. Defaults to 10.
- `segment_pressure_consecutive_failures_limit` (Number) The minimum consecutive failure count for activating remote segment backpressure. The minimum consecutive failure count for activating remote segment backpressure. Defaults to 5.
- `segment_pressure_enabled` (Boolean) Enables remote segment backpressure. Enables remote segment backpressure. Default is `true`.
- `segment_pressure_time_lag_variance_factor` (Number) The variance factor that is used to calculate the dynamic bytes lag threshold. The variance factor that is used together with the moving average to calculate the dynamic time lag threshold for activating remote segment backpressure. Defaults to 10.


<a id="nestedblock--properties--saml"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.saml`

Optional Attributes:

- `enabled` (Boolean) Enable or disable OpenSearch SAML authentication. Enables or disables SAML-based authentication for OpenSearch. When enabled, users can authenticate using SAML with an Identity Provider.
- `idp_entity_id` (String) Identity Provider Entity ID. The unique identifier for the Identity Provider (IdP) entity that is used for SAML authentication. This value is typically provided by the IdP.
- `idp_metadata_url` (String) Identity Provider (IdP) SAML metadata URL. The URL of the SAML metadata for the Identity Provider (IdP). This is used to configure SAML-based authentication with the IdP.
- `idp_pemtrustedcas_content` (String) PEM-encoded root CA Content for SAML IdP server verification. This parameter specifies the PEM-encoded root certificate authority (CA) content for the SAML identity provider (IdP) server verification. The root CA content is used to verify the SSL/TLS certificate presented by the server.
- `roles_key` (String) SAML response role attribute. Optional. Specifies the attribute in the SAML response where role information is stored, if available. Role attributes are not required for SAML authentication, but can be included in SAML assertions by most Identity Providers (IdPs) to determine user access levels or permissions.
- `sp_entity_id` (String) Service Provider Entity ID. The unique identifier for the Service Provider (SP) entity that is used for SAML authentication. This value is typically provided by the SP.
- `subject_key` (String) SAML response subject attribute. Optional. Specifies the attribute in the SAML response where the subject identifier is stored. If not configured, the NameID attribute is used by default.


<a id="nestedblock--properties--search_backpressure"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.search_backpressure`

Optional Attributes:

- `mode` (String) The search backpressure mode. The search backpressure mode. Valid values are monitor_only, enforced, or disabled. Default is monitor_only.

Blocks:

- `node_duress` (Block List, Max: 1) Node duress settings. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--search_backpressure--node_duress))
- `search_shard_task` (Block List, Max: 1) Search shard settings. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--search_backpressure--search_shard_task))
- `search_task` (Block List, Max: 1) Search task settings. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--search_backpressure--search_task))

<a id="nestedblock--properties--search_backpressure--node_duress"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.search_backpressure.node_duress`

Optional Attributes:

- `cpu_threshold` (Number) The CPU usage threshold (as a percentage) required for a node to be considered to be under duress. The CPU usage threshold (as a percentage) required for a node to be considered to be under duress. Default is 0.9.
- `heap_threshold` (Number) The heap usage threshold (as a percentage) required for a node to be considered to be under duress. The heap usage threshold (as a percentage) required for a node to be considered to be under duress. Default is 0.7.
- `num_successive_breaches` (Number) The number of successive limit breaches after which the node is considered to be under duress. The number of successive limit breaches after which the node is considered to be under duress. Default is 3.


<a id="nestedblock--properties--search_backpressure--search_shard_task"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.search_backpressure.search_shard_task`

Optional Attributes:

- `cancellation_burst` (Number) The maximum number of search tasks to cancel in a single iteration of the observer thread. The maximum number of search tasks to cancel in a single iteration of the observer thread. Default is 10.0.
- `cancellation_rate` (Number) The maximum number of tasks to cancel per millisecond of elapsed time. The maximum number of tasks to cancel per millisecond of elapsed time. Default is 0.003.
- `cancellation_ratio` (Number) The maximum number of tasks to cancel. The maximum number of tasks to cancel, as a percentage of successful task completions. Default is 0.1.
- `cpu_time_millis_threshold` (Number) The CPU usage threshold (in milliseconds) required for a single search shard task before it is considered for cancellation. The CPU usage threshold (in milliseconds) required for a single search shard task before it is considered for cancellation. Default is 15000.
- `elapsed_time_millis_threshold` (Number) The elapsed time threshold (in milliseconds) required for a single search shard task before it is considered for cancellation. The elapsed time threshold (in milliseconds) required for a single search shard task before it is considered for cancellation. Default is 30000.
- `heap_moving_average_window_size` (Number) The number of previously completed search shard tasks to consider when calculating the rolling average of heap usage. The number of previously completed search shard tasks to consider when calculating the rolling average of heap usage. Default is 100.
- `heap_percent_threshold` (Number) The heap usage threshold (as a percentage) required for a single search shard task before it is considered for cancellation. The heap usage threshold (as a percentage) required for a single search shard task before it is considered for cancellation. Default is 0.5.
- `heap_variance` (Number) The minimum variance required for a single search shard task’s heap usage compared to the rolling average of previously completed tasks before it is considered for cancellation. The minimum variance required for a single search shard task’s heap usage compared to the rolling average of previously completed tasks before it is considered for cancellation. Default is 2.0.
- `total_heap_percent_threshold` (Number) The heap usage threshold (as a percentage) required for the sum of heap usages of all search shard tasks before cancellation is applied. The heap usage threshold (as a percentage) required for the sum of heap usages of all search shard tasks before cancellation is applied. Default is 0.5.


<a id="nestedblock--properties--search_backpressure--search_task"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.search_backpressure.search_task`

Optional Attributes:

- `cancellation_burst` (Number) The maximum number of search tasks to cancel in a single iteration of the observer thread. The maximum number of search tasks to cancel in a single iteration of the observer thread. Default is 5.0.
- `cancellation_rate` (Number) The maximum number of search tasks to cancel per millisecond of elapsed time. The maximum number of search tasks to cancel per millisecond of elapsed time. Default is 0.003.
- `cancellation_ratio` (Number) The maximum number of search tasks to cancel, as a percentage of successful search task completions. The maximum number of search tasks to cancel, as a percentage of successful search task completions. Default is 0.1.
- `cpu_time_millis_threshold` (Number) The CPU usage threshold (in milliseconds) required for an individual parent task before it is considered for cancellation. The CPU usage threshold (in milliseconds) required for an individual parent task before it is considered for cancellation. Default is 30000.
- `elapsed_time_millis_threshold` (Number) The elapsed time threshold (in milliseconds) required for an individual parent task before it is considered for cancellation. The elapsed time threshold (in milliseconds) required for an individual parent task before it is considered for cancellation. Default is 45000.
- `heap_moving_average_window_size` (Number) The window size used to calculate the rolling average of the heap usage for the completed parent tasks. The window size used to calculate the rolling average of the heap usage for the completed parent tasks. Default is 10.
- `heap_percent_threshold` (Number) The heap usage threshold (as a percentage) required for an individual parent task before it is considered for cancellation. The heap usage threshold (as a percentage) required for an individual parent task before it is considered for cancellation. Default is 0.2.
- `heap_variance` (Number) The heap usage variance required for an individual parent task before it is considered for cancellation. The heap usage variance required for an individual parent task before it is considered for cancellation. A task is considered for cancellation when taskHeapUsage is greater than or equal to heapUsageMovingAverage * variance. Default is 2.0.
- `total_heap_percent_threshold` (Number) The heap usage threshold (as a percentage) required for the sum of heap usages of all search tasks before cancellation is applied. The heap usage threshold (as a percentage) required for the sum of heap usages of all search tasks before cancellation is applied. Default is 0.5.



<a id="nestedblock--properties--search_insights_top_queries"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.search_insights_top_queries`

Blocks:

- `cpu` (Block List, Max: 1) Top N queries monitoring by CPU. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--search_insights_top_queries--cpu))
- `latency` (Block List, Max: 1) Top N queries monitoring by latency. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--search_insights_top_queries--latency))
- `memory` (Block List, Max: 1) Top N queries monitoring by memory. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--search_insights_top_queries--memory))

<a id="nestedblock--properties--search_insights_top_queries--cpu"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.search_insights_top_queries.cpu`

Optional Attributes:

- `enabled` (Boolean) Enable or disable top N query monitoring by the metric. Enable or disable top N query monitoring by the metric.
- `top_n_size` (Number) Specify the value of N for the top N queries by the metric.
- `window_size` (String) The window size of the top N queries by the metric. Configure the window size of the top N queries.


<a id="nestedblock--properties--search_insights_top_queries--latency"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.search_insights_top_queries.latency`

Optional Attributes:

- `enabled` (Boolean) Enable or disable top N query monitoring by the metric. Enable or disable top N query monitoring by the metric.
- `top_n_size` (Number) Specify the value of N for the top N queries by the metric.
- `window_size` (String) The window size of the top N queries by the metric. Configure the window size of the top N queries.


<a id="nestedblock--properties--search_insights_top_queries--memory"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.search_insights_top_queries.memory`

Optional Attributes:

- `enabled` (Boolean) Enable or disable top N query monitoring by the metric. Enable or disable top N query monitoring by the metric.
- `top_n_size` (Number) Specify the value of N for the top N queries by the metric.
- `window_size` (String) The window size of the top N queries by the metric. Configure the window size of the top N queries.



<a id="nestedblock--properties--segrep"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.segrep`

Optional Attributes:

- `pressure_checkpoint_limit` (Number) The maximum number of indexing checkpoints that a replica shard can fall behind when copying from primary. Once `segrep.pressure.checkpoint.limit` is breached along with `segrep.pressure.time.limit`, the segment replication backpressure mechanism is initiated. Default is 4 checkpoints.
- `pressure_enabled` (Boolean) Enables the segment replication backpressure mechanism. Default is false.
- `pressure_replica_stale_limit` (Number) The maximum number of stale replica shards that can exist in a replication group. Once `segrep.pressure.replica.stale.limit` is breached, the segment replication backpressure mechanism is initiated. Default is .5, which is 50% of a replication group.
- `pressure_time_limit` (String) The maximum amount of time that a replica shard can take to copy from the primary shard. Once segrep.pressure.time.limit is breached along with segrep.pressure.checkpoint.limit, the segment replication backpressure mechanism is initiated. Default is 5 minutes.


<a id="nestedblock--properties--shard_indexing_pressure"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.shard_indexing_pressure`

Optional Attributes:

- `enabled` (Boolean) Enable or disable shard indexing backpressure. Enable or disable shard indexing backpressure. Default is false.
- `enforced` (Boolean) Run shard indexing backpressure in shadow mode or enforced mode. Run shard indexing backpressure in shadow mode or enforced mode.
            In shadow mode (value set as false), shard indexing backpressure tracks all granular-level metrics,
            but it doesn’t actually reject any indexing requests.
            In enforced mode (value set as true),
            shard indexing backpressure rejects any requests to the cluster that might cause a dip in its performance.
            Default is false.

Blocks:

- `operating_factor` (Block List, Max: 1) Operating factor. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--shard_indexing_pressure--operating_factor))
- `primary_parameter` (Block List, Max: 1) Primary parameter. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--shard_indexing_pressure--primary_parameter))

<a id="nestedblock--properties--shard_indexing_pressure--operating_factor"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.shard_indexing_pressure.operating_factor`

Optional Attributes:

- `lower` (Number) Lower occupancy limit of the allocated quota of memory for the shard. Specify the lower occupancy limit of the allocated quota of memory for the shard.
                    If the total memory usage of a shard is below this limit,
                    shard indexing backpressure decreases the current allocated memory for that shard.
                    Default is 0.75.
- `optimal` (Number) Optimal occupancy of the allocated quota of memory for the shard. Specify the optimal occupancy of the allocated quota of memory for the shard.
                    If the total memory usage of a shard is at this level,
                    shard indexing backpressure doesn’t change the current allocated memory for that shard.
                    Default is 0.85.
- `upper` (Number) Upper occupancy limit of the allocated quota of memory for the shard. Specify the upper occupancy limit of the allocated quota of memory for the shard.
                    If the total memory usage of a shard is above this limit,
                    shard indexing backpressure increases the current allocated memory for that shard.
                    Default is 0.95.


<a id="nestedblock--properties--shard_indexing_pressure--primary_parameter"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.shard_indexing_pressure.primary_parameter`

Blocks:

- `node` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--shard_indexing_pressure--primary_parameter--node))
- `shard` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--shard_indexing_pressure--primary_parameter--shard))

<a id="nestedblock--properties--shard_indexing_pressure--primary_parameter--node"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.shard_indexing_pressure.primary_parameter.node`

Optional Attributes:

- `soft_limit` (Number) Node soft limit. Define the percentage of the node-level memory
                            threshold that acts as a soft indicator for strain on a node.
                            Default is 0.7.


<a id="nestedblock--properties--shard_indexing_pressure--primary_parameter--shard"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.shard_indexing_pressure.primary_parameter.shard`

Optional Attributes:

- `min_limit` (Number) Shard min limit. Specify the minimum assigned quota for a new shard in any role (coordinator, primary, or replica).
                            Shard indexing backpressure increases or decreases this allocated quota based on the inflow of traffic for the shard.
                            Default is 0.001.





<a id="nestedatt--components"></a>
### Nested Schema for `components`

Read-Only:

- `component` (String)
- `host` (String)
- `port` (Number)
- `route` (String)
- `usage` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--node_states"></a>
### Nested Schema for `node_states`

Read-Only:

- `name` (String)
- `role` (String)
- `state` (String)
