---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "upcloud_managed_database_postgresql Resource - terraform-provider-upcloud"
subcategory: Databases
description: |-
  This resource represents PostgreSQL managed database. See UpCloud Managed Databases https://upcloud.com/products/managed-databases product page for more details about the service.
---

# upcloud_managed_database_postgresql (Resource)

This resource represents PostgreSQL managed database. See UpCloud [Managed Databases](https://upcloud.com/products/managed-databases) product page for more details about the service.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# Minimal config
resource "upcloud_managed_database_postgresql" "example_1" {
  name  = "postgres-1"
  plan  = "1x1xCPU-2GB-25GB"
  title = "postgres"
  zone  = "fi-hel1"
}

# Service with custom properties
resource "upcloud_managed_database_postgresql" "example_2" {
  name  = "postgres-2"
  plan  = "1x1xCPU-2GB-25GB"
  title = "postgres"
  zone  = "fi-hel1"
  properties {
    timezone       = "Europe/Helsinki"
    admin_username = "admin"
    admin_password = "<ADMIN_PASSWORD>"
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required Attributes

- `name` (String) Name of the service. The name is used as a prefix for the logical hostname. Must be unique within an account
- `plan` (String) Service plan to use. This determines how much resources the instance will have. You can list available plans with `upctl database plans <type>`.
- `title` (String) Title of a managed database instance
- `zone` (String) Zone where the instance resides, e.g. `de-fra1`. You can list available zones with `upctl zone list`.

### Optional Attributes

- `labels` (Map of String) User defined key-value pairs to classify the managed database.
- `maintenance_window_dow` (String) Maintenance window day of week. Lower case weekday name (monday, tuesday, ...)
- `maintenance_window_time` (String) Maintenance window UTC time in hh:mm:ss format
- `powered` (Boolean) The administrative power state of the service

### Blocks

- `network` (Block Set, Max: 8) Private networks attached to the managed database (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--network))
- `properties` (Block List, Max: 1) Database Engine properties for PostgreSQL (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties))

### Read-Only

- `components` (List of Object) Service component information (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--components))
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `node_states` (List of Object) Information about nodes providing the managed service (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--node_states))
- `primary_database` (String) Primary database name
- `service_host` (String) Hostname to the service instance
- `service_password` (String, Sensitive) Primary username's password to the service instance
- `service_port` (String) Port to the service instance
- `service_uri` (String, Sensitive) URI to the service instance
- `service_username` (String) Primary username to the service instance
- `sslmode` (String) SSL Connection Mode for PostgreSQL
- `state` (String) State of the service
- `type` (String) Type of the service

<a id="nestedblock--network"></a>
### Nested Schema for `network`

Required Attributes:

- `family` (String) Network family. Currently only `IPv4` is supported.
- `name` (String) The name of the network. Must be unique within the service.
- `type` (String) The type of the network. Must be private.
- `uuid` (String) Private network UUID. Must reside in the same zone as the database.


<a id="nestedblock--properties"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties`

Optional Attributes:

- `admin_password` (String, Sensitive) Custom password for admin user. Defaults to random string. This must be set only when a new service is being created.
- `admin_username` (String) Custom username for admin user. This must be set only when a new service is being created.
- `automatic_utility_network_ip_filter` (Boolean) Automatic utility network IP Filter. Automatically allow connections from servers in the utility network within the same zone.
- `autovacuum_analyze_scale_factor` (Number) Specifies a fraction of the table size to add to autovacuum_analyze_threshold when deciding whether to trigger an ANALYZE. The default is 0.2 (20% of table size).
- `autovacuum_analyze_threshold` (Number) Specifies the minimum number of inserted, updated or deleted tuples needed to trigger an ANALYZE in any one table. The default is 50 tuples.
- `autovacuum_freeze_max_age` (Number) Specifies the maximum age (in transactions) that a table's pg_class.relfrozenxid field can attain before a VACUUM operation is forced to prevent transaction ID wraparound within the table. Note that the system will launch autovacuum processes to prevent wraparound even when autovacuum is otherwise disabled. This parameter will cause the server to be restarted.
- `autovacuum_max_workers` (Number) Specifies the maximum number of autovacuum processes (other than the autovacuum launcher) that may be running at any one time. The default is three. This parameter can only be set at server start.
- `autovacuum_naptime` (Number) Specifies the minimum delay between autovacuum runs on any given database. The delay is measured in seconds, and the default is one minute.
- `autovacuum_vacuum_cost_delay` (Number) Specifies the cost delay value that will be used in automatic VACUUM operations. If -1 is specified, the regular vacuum_cost_delay value will be used. The default value is 20 milliseconds.
- `autovacuum_vacuum_cost_limit` (Number) Specifies the cost limit value that will be used in automatic VACUUM operations. If -1 is specified (which is the default), the regular vacuum_cost_limit value will be used.
- `autovacuum_vacuum_scale_factor` (Number) Specifies a fraction of the table size to add to autovacuum_vacuum_threshold when deciding whether to trigger a VACUUM. The default is 0.2 (20% of table size).
- `autovacuum_vacuum_threshold` (Number) Specifies the minimum number of updated or deleted tuples needed to trigger a VACUUM in any one table. The default is 50 tuples.
- `backup_hour` (Number) The hour of day (in UTC) when backup for the service is started. New backup is only started if previous backup has already completed.
- `backup_minute` (Number) The minute of an hour when backup for the service is started. New backup is only started if previous backup has already completed.
- `bgwriter_delay` (Number) Specifies the delay between activity rounds for the background writer in milliseconds. Default is 200.
- `bgwriter_flush_after` (Number) Whenever more than bgwriter_flush_after bytes have been written by the background writer, attempt to force the OS to issue these writes to the underlying storage. Specified in kilobytes, default is 512. Setting of 0 disables forced writeback.
- `bgwriter_lru_maxpages` (Number) In each round, no more than this many buffers will be written by the background writer. Setting this to zero disables background writing. Default is 100.
- `bgwriter_lru_multiplier` (Number) The average recent need for new buffers is multiplied by bgwriter_lru_multiplier to arrive at an estimate of the number that will be needed during the next round, (up to bgwriter_lru_maxpages). 1.0 represents a “just in time” policy of writing exactly the number of buffers predicted to be needed. Larger values provide some cushion against spikes in demand, while smaller values intentionally leave writes to be done by server processes. The default is 2.0.
- `deadlock_timeout` (Number) This is the amount of time, in milliseconds, to wait on a lock before checking to see if there is a deadlock condition.
- `default_toast_compression` (String) Specifies the default TOAST compression method for values of compressible columns (the default is lz4).
- `idle_in_transaction_session_timeout` (Number) Time out sessions with open transactions after this number of milliseconds.
- `ip_filter` (List of String) IP filter. Allow incoming connections from CIDR address block, e.g. '10.20.0.0/16'.
- `jit` (Boolean) Controls system-wide use of Just-in-Time Compilation (JIT).
- `log_autovacuum_min_duration` (Number) Causes each action executed by autovacuum to be logged if it ran for at least the specified number of milliseconds. Setting this to zero logs all autovacuum actions. Minus-one (the default) disables logging autovacuum actions.
- `log_error_verbosity` (String) Controls the amount of detail written in the server log for each message that is logged.
- `log_line_prefix` (String) Choose from one of the available log formats.
- `log_min_duration_statement` (Number) Log statements that take more than this number of milliseconds to run, -1 disables.
- `log_temp_files` (Number) Log statements for each temporary file created larger than this number of kilobytes, -1 disables.
- `max_files_per_process` (Number) PostgreSQL maximum number of files that can be open per process.
- `max_locks_per_transaction` (Number) PostgreSQL maximum locks per transaction.
- `max_logical_replication_workers` (Number) PostgreSQL maximum logical replication workers (taken from the pool of max_parallel_workers).
- `max_parallel_workers` (Number) Sets the maximum number of workers that the system can support for parallel queries.
- `max_parallel_workers_per_gather` (Number) Sets the maximum number of workers that can be started by a single Gather or Gather Merge node.
- `max_pred_locks_per_transaction` (Number) PostgreSQL maximum predicate locks per transaction.
- `max_prepared_transactions` (Number) PostgreSQL maximum prepared transactions.
- `max_replication_slots` (Number) PostgreSQL maximum replication slots.
- `max_slot_wal_keep_size` (Number) PostgreSQL maximum WAL size (MB) reserved for replication slots. Default is -1 (unlimited). wal_keep_size minimum WAL size setting takes precedence over this.
- `max_stack_depth` (Number) Maximum depth of the stack in bytes.
- `max_standby_archive_delay` (Number) Max standby archive delay in milliseconds.
- `max_standby_streaming_delay` (Number) Max standby streaming delay in milliseconds.
- `max_wal_senders` (Number) PostgreSQL maximum WAL senders.
- `max_worker_processes` (Number) Sets the maximum number of background processes that the system can support.
- `pg_partman_bgw_interval` (Number) Sets the time interval to run pg_partman's scheduled tasks.
- `pg_partman_bgw_role` (String) Controls which role to use for pg_partman's scheduled background tasks.
- `pg_stat_monitor_enable` (Boolean) Enable pg_stat_monitor extension if available for the current cluster. Enable the pg_stat_monitor extension. Enabling this extension will cause the cluster to be restarted.When this extension is enabled, pg_stat_statements results for utility commands are unreliable.
- `pg_stat_monitor_pgsm_enable_query_plan` (Boolean) Enables or disables query plan monitoring.
- `pg_stat_monitor_pgsm_max_buckets` (Number) Sets the maximum number of buckets.
- `pg_stat_statements_track` (String) Controls which statements are counted. Specify top to track top-level statements (those issued directly by clients), all to also track nested statements (such as statements invoked within functions), or none to disable statement statistics collection. The default value is top.
- `public_access` (Boolean) Public Access. Allow access to the service from the public Internet.
- `service_log` (Boolean) Service logging. Store logs for the service so that they are available in the HTTP API and console.
- `shared_buffers_percentage` (Number) Percentage of total RAM that the database server uses for shared memory buffers. Valid range is 20-60 (float), which corresponds to 20% - 60%. This setting adjusts the shared_buffers configuration value.
- `synchronous_replication` (String) Synchronous replication type. Note that the service plan also needs to support synchronous replication.
- `temp_file_limit` (Number) PostgreSQL temporary file limit in KiB, -1 for unlimited.
- `timezone` (String) PostgreSQL service timezone.
- `track_activity_query_size` (Number) Specifies the number of bytes reserved to track the currently executing command for each active session.
- `track_commit_timestamp` (String) Record commit time of transactions.
- `track_functions` (String) Enables tracking of function call counts and time used.
- `track_io_timing` (String) Enables timing of database I/O calls. This parameter is off by default, because it will repeatedly query the operating system for the current time, which may cause significant overhead on some platforms.
- `variant` (String) Variant of the PostgreSQL service, may affect the features that are exposed by default.
- `version` (String) PostgreSQL major version.
- `wal_sender_timeout` (Number) Terminate replication connections that are inactive for longer than this amount of time, in milliseconds. Setting this value to zero disables the timeout.
- `wal_writer_delay` (Number) WAL flush interval in milliseconds. Note that setting this value to lower than the default 200ms may negatively impact performance.
- `work_mem` (Number) Sets the maximum amount of memory to be used by a query operation (such as a sort or hash table) before writing to temporary disk files, in MB. Default is 1MB + 0.075% of total RAM (up to 32MB).

Blocks:

- `migration` (Block List, Max: 1) Migrate data from existing server. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--migration))
- `pgbouncer` (Block List, Max: 1) PGBouncer connection pooling settings. System-wide settings for pgbouncer. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--pgbouncer))
- `pglookout` (Block List, Max: 1) PGLookout settings. System-wide settings for pglookout. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--pglookout))
- `timescaledb` (Block List, Max: 1) TimescaleDB extension configuration values. System-wide settings for the timescaledb extension. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--timescaledb))

<a id="nestedblock--properties--migration"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.migration`

Optional Attributes:

- `dbname` (String) Database name for bootstrapping the initial connection.
- `host` (String) Hostname or IP address of the server where to migrate data from.
- `ignore_dbs` (String) Comma-separated list of databases, which should be ignored during migration (supported by MySQL and PostgreSQL only at the moment).
- `ignore_roles` (String) Comma-separated list of database roles, which should be ignored during migration (supported by PostgreSQL only at the moment).
- `method` (String) The migration method to be used (currently supported only by Redis, Dragonfly, MySQL and PostgreSQL service types).
- `password` (String, Sensitive) Password for authentication with the server where to migrate data from.
- `port` (Number) Port number of the server where to migrate data from.
- `ssl` (Boolean) The server where to migrate data from is secured with SSL.
- `username` (String) User name for authentication with the server where to migrate data from.


<a id="nestedblock--properties--pgbouncer"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.pgbouncer`

Optional Attributes:

- `autodb_idle_timeout` (Number) If the automatically created database pools have been unused this many seconds, they are freed. If 0 then timeout is disabled. [seconds].
- `autodb_max_db_connections` (Number) Do not allow more than this many server connections per database (regardless of user). Setting it to 0 means unlimited.
- `autodb_pool_mode` (String) PGBouncer pool mode.
- `autodb_pool_size` (Number) If non-zero then create automatically a pool of that size per user when a pool doesn't exist.
- `ignore_startup_parameters` (List of String) List of parameters to ignore when given in startup packet.
- `max_prepared_statements` (Number) PgBouncer tracks protocol-level named prepared statements related commands sent by the client in transaction and statement pooling modes when max_prepared_statements is set to a non-zero value. Setting it to 0 disables prepared statements. max_prepared_statements defaults to 100, and its maximum is 3000.
- `min_pool_size` (Number) Add more server connections to pool if below this number. Improves behavior when usual load comes suddenly back after period of total inactivity. The value is effectively capped at the pool size.
- `server_idle_timeout` (Number) If a server connection has been idle more than this many seconds it will be dropped. If 0 then timeout is disabled. [seconds].
- `server_lifetime` (Number) The pooler will close an unused server connection that has been connected longer than this. [seconds].
- `server_reset_query_always` (Boolean) Run server_reset_query (DISCARD ALL) in all pooling modes.


<a id="nestedblock--properties--pglookout"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.pglookout`

Optional Attributes:

- `max_failover_replication_time_lag` (Number) Number of seconds of master unavailability before triggering database failover to standby.


<a id="nestedblock--properties--timescaledb"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.timescaledb`

Optional Attributes:

- `max_background_workers` (Number) The number of background workers for timescaledb operations. You should configure this setting to the sum of your number of databases and the total number of concurrent background workers you want running at any given point in time.



<a id="nestedatt--components"></a>
### Nested Schema for `components`

Read-Only:

- `component` (String)
- `host` (String)
- `port` (Number)
- `route` (String)
- `usage` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--node_states"></a>
### Nested Schema for `node_states`

Read-Only:

- `name` (String)
- `role` (String)
- `state` (String)
