---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "upcloud_managed_database_redis Resource - terraform-provider-upcloud"
subcategory: Databases
description: |-
  This resource represents Redis managed database. See UpCloud Managed Databases https://upcloud.com/products/managed-databases product page for more details about the service.
---

# upcloud_managed_database_redis (Resource)

This resource represents Redis managed database. See UpCloud [Managed Databases](https://upcloud.com/products/managed-databases) product page for more details about the service.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# Minimal config
resource "upcloud_managed_database_redis" "example_1" {
  name  = "redis-1"
  title = "redis-1-example-2"
  plan  = "1x1xCPU-2GB"
  zone  = "fi-hel2"
}

# Service with custom properties
resource "upcloud_managed_database_redis" "example_2" {
  name  = "redis-2"
  title = "redis-2-example-2"
  plan  = "1x1xCPU-2GB"
  zone  = "fi-hel1"
  properties {
    public_access = false
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required Attributes

- `name` (String) Name of the service. The name is used as a prefix for the logical hostname. Must be unique within an account
- `plan` (String) Service plan to use. This determines how much resources the instance will have. You can list available plans with `upctl database plans <type>`.
- `title` (String) Title of a managed database instance
- `zone` (String) Zone where the instance resides, e.g. `de-fra1`. You can list available zones with `upctl zone list`.

### Optional Attributes

- `maintenance_window_dow` (String) Maintenance window day of week. Lower case weekday name (monday, tuesday, ...)
- `maintenance_window_time` (String) Maintenance window UTC time in hh:mm:ss format
- `powered` (Boolean) The administrative power state of the service

### Blocks

- `network` (Block Set, Max: 8) Private networks attached to the managed database (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--network))
- `properties` (Block List, Max: 1) Database Engine properties for Redis (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties))

### Read-Only

- `components` (List of Object) Service component information (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--components))
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `node_states` (List of Object) Information about nodes providing the managed service (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--node_states))
- `primary_database` (String) Primary database name
- `service_host` (String) Hostname to the service instance
- `service_password` (String, Sensitive) Primary username's password to the service instance
- `service_port` (String) Port to the service instance
- `service_uri` (String, Sensitive) URI to the service instance
- `service_username` (String) Primary username to the service instance
- `state` (String) State of the service
- `type` (String) Type of the service

<a id="nestedblock--network"></a>
### Nested Schema for `network`

Required Attributes:

- `family` (String) Network family. Currently only `IPv4` is supported.
- `name` (String) The name of the network. Must be unique within the service.
- `type` (String) The type of the network. Must be private.
- `uuid` (String) Private network UUID. Must reside in the same zone as the database.


<a id="nestedblock--properties"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties`

Optional Attributes:

- `automatic_utility_network_ip_filter` (Boolean) Automatic utility network IP Filter. Automatically allow connections from servers in the utility network within the same zone.
- `ip_filter` (List of String) IP filter. Allow incoming connections from CIDR address block, e.g. '10.20.0.0/16'.
- `public_access` (Boolean) Public Access. Allow access to the service from the public Internet.
- `redis_acl_channels_default` (String) Default ACL for pub/sub channels used when Redis user is created. Determines default pub/sub channels' ACL for new users if ACL is not supplied. When this option is not defined, all_channels is assumed to keep backward compatibility. This option doesn't affect Redis configuration acl-pubsub-default.
- `redis_io_threads` (Number) Redis IO thread count. Set Redis IO thread count. Changing this will cause a restart of the Redis service.
- `redis_lfu_decay_time` (Number) LFU maxmemory-policy counter decay time in minutes.
- `redis_lfu_log_factor` (Number) Counter logarithm factor for volatile-lfu and allkeys-lfu maxmemory-policies.
- `redis_maxmemory_policy` (String) Redis maxmemory-policy.
- `redis_notify_keyspace_events` (String) Set notify-keyspace-events option.
- `redis_number_of_databases` (Number) Number of Redis databases. Set number of Redis databases. Changing this will cause a restart of the Redis service.
- `redis_persistence` (String) Redis persistence. When persistence is 'rdb', Redis does RDB dumps each 10 minutes if any key is changed. Also RDB dumps are done according to backup schedule for backup purposes. When persistence is 'off', no RDB dumps and backups are done, so data can be lost at any moment if service is restarted for any reason, or if service is powered off. Also service can't be forked.
- `redis_pubsub_client_output_buffer_limit` (Number) Pub/sub client output buffer hard limit in MB. Set output buffer limit for pub / sub clients in MB. The value is the hard limit, the soft limit is 1/4 of the hard limit. When setting the limit, be mindful of the available memory in the selected service plan.
- `redis_ssl` (Boolean) Require SSL to access Redis.
- `redis_timeout` (Number) Redis idle connection timeout in seconds.
- `redis_version` (String) Redis major version.
- `service_log` (Boolean) Service logging. Store logs for the service so that they are available in the HTTP API and console.

Blocks:

- `migration` (Block List, Max: 1) Migrate data from existing server. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--properties--migration))

<a id="nestedblock--properties--migration"></a>
### Nested Schema for `properties.migration`

Optional Attributes:

- `dbname` (String) Database name for bootstrapping the initial connection.
- `host` (String) Hostname or IP address of the server where to migrate data from.
- `ignore_dbs` (String) Comma-separated list of databases, which should be ignored during migration (supported by MySQL and PostgreSQL only at the moment).
- `method` (String) The migration method to be used (currently supported only by Redis, Dragonfly, MySQL and PostgreSQL service types).
- `password` (String, Sensitive) Password for authentication with the server where to migrate data from.
- `port` (Number) Port number of the server where to migrate data from.
- `ssl` (Boolean) The server where to migrate data from is secured with SSL.
- `username` (String) User name for authentication with the server where to migrate data from.



<a id="nestedatt--components"></a>
### Nested Schema for `components`

Read-Only:

- `component` (String)
- `host` (String)
- `port` (Number)
- `route` (String)
- `usage` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--node_states"></a>
### Nested Schema for `node_states`

Read-Only:

- `name` (String)
- `role` (String)
- `state` (String)
