---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "upcloud_router Resource - terraform-provider-upcloud"
subcategory: Network
description: |-
  Routers can be used to connect multiple Private Networks. UpCloud Servers on any attached network can communicate directly with each other.
---

# upcloud_router (Resource)

Routers can be used to connect multiple Private Networks. UpCloud Servers on any attached network can communicate directly with each other.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "upcloud_router" "my_example_router" {
  name = "My Example Router"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required Attributes

- `name` (String) Name of the router.

### Optional Attributes

- `labels` (Map of String) Key-value pairs to classify the router.

### Blocks

- `static_route` (Block Set) A collection of user managed static routes for this router. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--static_route))

### Read-Only

- `attached_networks` (List of String) List of UUIDs representing networks attached to this router.
- `id` (String) UUID of the router.
- `static_routes` (Set of Object) A collection of static routes for this router. This set includes both user and service defined static routes. The objects in this set use the same schema as `static_route` blocks. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--static_routes))
- `type` (String) Type of the router

<a id="nestedblock--static_route"></a>
### Nested Schema for `static_route`

Required Attributes:

- `nexthop` (String) Next hop address. NOTE: For static route to be active the next hop has to be an address of a reachable running Cloud Server in one of the Private Networks attached to the router.
- `route` (String) Destination prefix of the route.

Optional Attributes:

- `name` (String) Name or description of the route.

Read-Only:

- `type` (String) Type of the route.


<a id="nestedatt--static_routes"></a>
### Nested Schema for `static_routes`

Read-Only:

- `name` (String)
- `nexthop` (String)
- `route` (String)
- `type` (String)

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
terraform import upcloud_router.my_example_router 049d7ca2-757e-4fb1-a833-f87ee056547a
```
